W-14414684 Updating tutorial (#194)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/api-led-test.adoc

endif::[]

So far, you've created an API and tested the HTTP request with a third-party client, and then published the API to Exchange.
Now you'll use Studio to add validation and a unit test. In Studio, you'll use the scaffolding that's already created to:

* Validate input using the Validation module.
* Create an error handler for one error condition.

== Step 4.1: Validation

Add an operation from the Validation module to the API implementation to ensure that user input is appropriate for the API.
Your API is very simple, so your testing is also simple. You'll test whether the size of the payload is within an acceptable range.

Add the *Validate size* operation to the `hello-world-app` project:

. In the `hello-world-app` project in Studio, open `hello-world-api.xml` if it isn't already open, and make sure you are viewing the *Message Flow* tab of the canvas.

> . In *Mule Palette*, click *Add Modules > Validation* and drag it to the *Mule Palette*.

Reviewer: Use select for menu hierarchy.

+
image:validation-module.png[View of Mule Palette with the Validation module selected]

> . From the list of operations, drag *Validate size* to the Studio canvas and drop it inside the endpoint module to the right of *Set Payload*.

Reviewer: Is Vale OK with "right"?

Author: It flagged it, but in this case, there is no avoiding the use of *right*. For the flow to work, the logger has to be on the right side of the Set Payload component. Nothing prevents you from putting it on the left side, but if you did, that would be a different flow.

  .. *Max*: `30`
  .. *Error options > Message*: `The specified message is either too long or too short.`
. From the Studio main menu, select *File > Save All* to save your changes.
. Right-click in the canvas and select *Run project hello-world-app*.
. After you see the console message indicating `hello-world-app` is deployed, send a request using Advanced Rest Client or a similar tool:
+
[source, xml]
----
http://localhost:8081/api/greeting
----
+

> Your request client reports response headers containing `200 OK` and `Today the greeting is Hello.`. This demonstrates the expected behavior when the greeting is within the limits you set in the Validate size operation.

Reviewer: Should Validate size have a font change? or be lc?

. Right-click the canvas and select *Stop project hello-world-app*.

To test that the validation works when the payload is too short, use the debugger to step through each event before the error is triggered.

. In the `hello-world-app` project in Studio, open `hello-world-api.xml`.
. Click *Set Payload*, and then change the value to `Hi.`.

> . In *Mule Palette*, select *Favorites > Logger*, and then drag the logger in between *Set Payload* and *Validate size*. The logger stops the process to help debugging. No configuration of the logger is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Mule Palette*, select *Favorites > Logger*, and then drop the logger between *Set Payload* and *Validate size*. The logger stops the process to help debugging. No configuration of the logger is needed.
```

Author: Style guide says just use drag. And that's the action here--dragging it over.

. Right-click *Set Payload* and select *Add breakpoint*.
. Repeat the previous step for *Logger* and *Validate size*.

> . Right-click the canvas and select *Debug project hello-world-app*. If you are asked to open the Mule Debug perspective, select the *Remember my decision* checkbox and click *Yes*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Right-click the canvas and select *Debug project hello-world-app*. If prompted to open the Mule Debug perspective, select the *Remember my decision* checkbox and click *Yes*.
```

----

. Return to Studio and notice that there's a dashed line around *Set Payload*.

> . In the canvas, click *Set Payload* to open the *Set Payload* node in the *Mule Debugger* above the canvas. 

Reviewer: above

> . Open *Set Payload* and see that the payload value is `Hi.`, three characters.

Reviewer: Do you need the three characters? Is it part of the UI? Should it be in parans or something?

Author: I think it's pointed out because the 3 characters is what causes the error.

> . Click the *Next processor* (curved yellow arrow) above the debugger window.

Reviewer: I guess you need the aboves

Author: In this case, I didn't see a way to avoid it.

+
image:next-toggle.png[Next processor control to move to next toggle point, 500]
+
If you hover over it to ensure you have the correct control, the label *Next processor (F6)* appears. The debugger pane now shows the Logger connector.
. Click the curved yellow arrow again to move to the Validate size operation.

> . Click the curved yellow arrow again, and notice that an error message you defined is now in the *error* object in the debugger pane, and a red dotted-line shows in the Validate size operation.

Reviewer: Does Vale complain about "red"?

Reviewer: Validate size font?

Author: Oh, I don't think it did. I would have noticed. I normally try to avoid mentioning colors. The red isn't needed here.

Author: I suppose the yellow isn't either...

+
image:validation-error.png[View of debugger displaying error for Validate size, 500]
. Click the *Next processor* again, and notice that the canvas now displays the beginning of your message flow, with a red dotted-line around the APIkit Router, one of the scaffolding items added during import. The router handles the error.
. Click the *Next processor* again to complete the flow. The Mule debugger pane is now empty because the process is complete.
. Look at Advanced Rest Client. You should see `500 Server Error` and the payload value.
+
To see the error you defined returned instead of the payload, you'll need to configure one of the error handlers.
. Right-click on the canvas and select *Stop project hello-world-app*.
. Select *Window > Perspective > Open Perspective > Mule Design* to exit the debugger view.

== Step 4.2: Add Error Handling

Now you'll add an error handler for the validation you've set up.

> . In Studio *Mule Palette*, select *Core > On Error Propagate*, and then drag and drop the error handler on *Error handling* in *get:\greeting:hello-world-app-config*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Studio *Mule Palette*, select *Core > On Error Propagate*, and then drop the error handler on *Error handling* in *get:\greeting:hello-world-app-config*.
```

Reviewer: (per SG)

Author: SG says drag.

+
image:on-error.png[Adding an error handler to GET module and configuring it]
. In the *General* configuration tab, configure the error handler:
  ** *Display Name:* `On Error Propagate`
  ** *Type:* Click the search icon and select *VALIDATION:INVALID_SIZE*.
  ** Don't change the other default values.
. Drag a *Set Payload* operation into the new *On Error Propagate* error handler.
. Configure the new Set Payload operation:
  .. Double-click *Set Payload* to open the *General* tab.
  .. In *Settings > Value:*, replace `payload` with `error.description`.
. Click *File > Save All* to save your changes.
. Add breakpoints to *Set Payload*, *Logger*, and *Validate size* if you previously removed them.
. Right-click in the canvas and select *Debug project hello-world-app*.
. After the app is deployed, send the query `\http://localhost:8081/api/greeting` from Advanced Rest Client, and step through each breakpoint using the curved yellow arrow.

> . When you reach *Set Payload* in *On Error Propagate*, you can see that the payload is set to the error message you created in Validate size.

Reviewer: the **Validate size** operation?

+
image:payload-message.png[Debugger messages for Set Payload in error handler]

> . When you reach the *APIkit Router* in the message flow, you can see the error message replaces the original payload `Hi.`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. When you reach the *APIkit Router* in the message flow, you see that the error message replaces the original payload `Hi.`.
```

+
image:payload-response.png[Breakpoint at APIkit Router showing error message in payload]

> . After you step all the way through and look at the response in Advanced Rest Client, you'll see that a *500 Server Error* is returned along with the error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. After you step through and look at the response in Advanced Rest Client, you see that a *500 Server Error* is returned along with the error message.
```
